An ORM or Object Relational Mapper allows a choice in the programming language that can be used when communicating with a database. This popular method is used in many languages and each have their own preferred ORM, such as Python using SQLAlchemy and Java using Hibernate. By using this method, the ORM essentially surrounds the request in an object and creates a virtual database to store and manipulate the data. By doing this it can transform the request into an action that a relational database will understand. If we choose to look at the data inside the relational database you would see that all of the data is organized into tables made up of numerous rows and columns. Each column would be assigned a specific datatype such as an interger or string and there would be only one value per row in each column. This type of organization then has the ability to use data validation to keep the data consistant. To go even further the database is secured by the ability to prevent entry of bad data by adding data or table constraints such as a `NOT NULL` or `PRIMARY KEY`. By keeping data classified in this fashion any request can easily be processed as each data point has a defined relationship.

## Overview of the Django ORM

Django was created for data driven apps and it's only natural that it would also have an integrated ORM. Django has developed an easy to understand solution for database communication through the use of a free API feature but before we go any further let's set up the database.
